# Scope <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Global Variables](#global-variables)
  - [`const` and `let`](#const-and-let)
- [Function-Scoped Variables](#function-scoped-variables)
  - [Shadow variables](#shadow-variables)
- [Block-scoped Variables](#block-scoped-variables)
- [Lexical/Static Scoping](#lexicalstatic-scoping)
- [Variables Best Practices](#variables-best-practices)
- [Function Scoping](#function-scoping)

## Global Variables

Variables that are available everywhere in the application

Variables that are declared outside functions are globally scoped

The `window` in js indicates the global scope, and pretty much anything that is global is attached to the `window` object.

### `const` and `let`

`var` declared objects are attached to the window. While `const` and `let` are globally-scoped, but not attached to the window.

## Function-Scoped Variables

Variables created inside functions _are only ever available inside that function._

If you want that variable to be available outside the function, you have to return it and pass it to a variable outside the function.

However, global variables will still be available inside functions.

### Shadow variables

See the example below:

```javascript
const age = 100;

function go() {
  const age = 200;
  console.log(age);
}
```

Will log `200`, while:

```javascript
const age = 100;

function go() {
  console.log(age);
}
```

will log `100`. That's because, in the first example, the `age` variable was being 'shadowed' and overwritten in the function scope. This is generally not good practice.

## Block-scoped Variables

Things in a set of `{}` are called _blocks_

Variables created inside of a block are block-scoped, unless the variable was created with `var`.

A handy way around this is the following:

```javascript
let cool;
if (1 === 1) {
  cool = true;
}
```

In the above instance, cool will be available outside of the block, since we set the variable as `undefined` in the global scope, and then it is _updated_ through the object to `true`, which will be available globally.

## Lexical/Static Scoping

JS is a _'lexically scoped'_ language

functions don't care about definitions where they are run, but where they are **defined**

## Variables Best Practices

- Try not to create global variables
-

## Function Scoping

Functions are scoped the same way as variables.

Functions are scoped to the parent function.
